# Prototype status
A microcontroller emits a periodic pulse signal (computational material) which, after being amplified, drives an electromagnet (the exciter/transducer) placed in close proximity to a string (expressive material). The oscillating magnetic field produced by the electromagnet excites the resonant string. If the oscillator and the open string are tuned to a sympathetic frequency, the effect of the excitement is reinforced.

Currently I have an interface which allows me to modulate the frequency of the oscillator. Once I find the fundamental frequency of the string, I am able to target upper harmonics using a keyboard tuned to multiples of the fundamental.

This setup assumes that the tuning of the string should remain static. This may be limiting.

https://youtu.be/iXcqGQNj568

# Defining the project

## Conceptual primer

I have a conceptual framing for this project that was formulated before I really got down to building and I haven't really had a chance to reflect on how the work I've done this past week really aligns with my intention.

In my proposal, put forward the following:

**Primary question:** 

How can experimental design approaches to alternative electro-acoustic transduction be used to challenge the signal–loudspeaker paradigm that underpins the schizophonic soundscape? 

**Secondary question:** 

What forms of computational sonic expression and design knowledge emerge through research-creation and iterative prototyping of post-schizophonic electroacoustic instruments?

## Aesthetic design

I've done a bunch of great work this week, but its been pretty functionally driven. Right now we have a setup that allows us to target individual harmonics. This proves the instrument works, but it may not be of interest to anybody who doesn't share my niche interest.

We need to figure out how to target the areas of instability. How do we do this?

- Playing. This is number one. Maybe the interface already serves this purpose, but it hasn't been adequately tested.
	- We need a place where we can do this, where we can work and keep our stuff set up and make noise. Should I talk to Eldad? Or maybe this is a CIRMMT thing. Set up a lab
- More sophisticated control. Should we just switch back to computer? Do we need the micro controller?
	- Mod matrix
	- Memory
	- Sequencer

But also, if we want to get something recordable there's really only a few steps

- pickup
	- piezo or magnetic
- touch contacts