# Reflections on journaling and documentation
What is the purpose of this journal and this vault. what should I be including and why? Who is reading this? should I keep it lean for the sake of [[legibility]]. should I push it past the limit of usefulness and risk making it unsustainable? Or just add things incrementally?
## journal/vault purpose 
You started doing this for 2 main reasons. We need to remember that. To get better at making and to create the conditions to do the best writing we can do, ~~with the least amount of pain~~, with the most pleasure and curiosity. life is suffering, but its also a lot of fun.
### painless writing
Setting myself up so the eventual writing portion (thesis, publication etc.) natural, sincere and authentic, and subsequently, ~~less painful and less of an impediment to continuous making~~ as fun as possible, and as conducive to uninterrupted making. For the last two years of my undergrad, i was in a research group with mostly grad students, and every week i would hear the same thing: "once im done with this writing, i can get back to making". it pretty much never worked out that way. really, its only GV who seems to be able to do both, and he seems pretty fucking exhausted.

I think we’ve lost sight of that objective. We've also had this other paper hanging over our head, so it makes sense that it hasnt exactly been easy. this is the last paper we do that doesnt align with our research creation. The reason we made this a vault, rather than just a journal, was to make mini essays.
### better making
#### adhd insurance
tech documentation, design documentation. very important. not just for sharing, but for you. you will lose interest in this project at some point. and then you will return to it. lets make that as easy as possible, no?
#### scope warden
pretty self explanatory. when we're making, just follow the thread. but when we eventually hit a wall or run out of steam, the journal is there, a repository of low hanging fruit.
